documentation/How_to_use_the_package.md, before:

# How do you use the package?

## Example
```
import EEM
```
```
eem = read_excel() # another read function
eem_norm = fluo_raman_norm(eem)
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order='both')

plot_3D_surface_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
plot_3D_contour_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
plot_3D_contour(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```

## Pocedure
### 1) Upload the EEM matrice (file's data)
#### Example with an excel file

```
eem = read_excel()
```
![1) Popup to upload a file](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/7c6659a7-ebd5-45e2-9a22-ae398a53ba9f)

 ### 2) EEM matrice's normalisation
 #### If the blank is included in the file (eem):

 ```
 eem_norm = fluo_raman_norm(eem)
```
#### If the blank is in another file:

 ```
 blank = read_excel()
 eem_norm = fluo_raman_norm(eem, blank = blank)
 ```
 The normalised EEM matrix is saved in an excel file called "normalised_Ramnan.xlsx" in the following form. The corresponding DataFrame is returned as shown below:
 
 | EmWl [nm] | 250        | 255        | 260        | 265        | 270        | 275        | 280        | 285        | 290        | 295        | 300        |
| --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| 350       | 0.0008789  | 0.0023753  | 0.0028547  | 0.004495   | 0.0065382  | 0.0060588  | 0.0084375  | 0.0080449  | 0.0088119  | 0.0091292  | 0.0088656  |
| 350.5     | 0.0010234  | 0.0022913  | 0.002919   | 0.0044307  | 0.0058528  | 0.0064289  | 0.0076323  | 0.009171   | 0.0087779  | 0.0084182  | 0.0080242  |
| 351       | 0.0011219  | 0.0022533  | 0.0030072  | 0.0044122  | 0.0055507  | 0.0064891  | 0.0079348  | 0.0089342  | 0.0090996  | 0.0080688  | 0.007986   |
| 351.5     | 0.0011135  | 0.0022734  | 0.0030723  | 0.0044049  | 0.0056659  | 0.0065027  | 0.0079862  | 0.0089206  | 0.0089053  | 0.0079954  | 0.0079835  |
| 352       | 0.0011124  | 0.0022865  | 0.0031589  | 0.0043866  | 0.0056515  | 0.0065596  | 0.0079579  | 0.0087859  | 0.00886    | 0.007912   | 0.0078569  |

### 3) Optional: Remove Rayleigh scattering. (Recommanded before plotting)
#### First order
```
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order=1)
```
#### Second order
```
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order=2)
```
#### Both order 
```
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order='both')
```

### Expected graph after removing the Rayleigh scattering:
![Contour_avec_rayleight](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/dc6b63a2-0a5b-4a90-995b-48cda94bc0d0)

### Expected graph without removing the first-order Rayleigh scattering:
![Contour_sans_rayleight_1](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/1d498a4b-be16-43b3-9f55-55557b6fa396)

### Expected graph after removing the second-order Rayleigh scattering:
![newplot (1)](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/66179bdb-a3d9-4f35-8f8c-ea9bbaf27ef8)

### Expected graph after removing the Rayleigh scattering (removed strip's width = 50 (default = 10)):
![Width_50](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/879d659d-1a0c-4d46-9943-2ee854212e7c)

### Expected graph after removing the Rayleigh scattering (removed strip's width = 5 (default = 10)):
![newplot (2)](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/08e896af-6f23-4d1a-84f0-63ee67b6ffa7)

### 4) Plot several graphs

### 2D graphs
Expected graph with one curve
```
plot_fluorescence_graph(eem)
```
![Capture d'écran 2024-05-23 165402](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160879372/f11c8d96-2487-41c7-bb9e-c405dd49e496)

Expected graph with superimposed curves (values in the same file)
```
plot_superimposed_graphs(eem, eem1 = False, eem2 = False, eem3 = False, eem4 = False, eem5 = False, eem6 = False)
```
Expected graph with superimposed curve (values in two different files)
```
eem = read_excel()
eem1 = fluo_raman_norm(eem)
plot_superimposed_graphs(eem, eem1 = eem1, eem2 = False, eem3 = False, eem4 = False, eem5 = False, eem6 = False)
```
![Capture d'écran 2024-05-23 164628](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160879372/9f74d508-8a74-4085-8c4e-1b309c18bb76)


#### 3D Surface plot
If normalised:
```
plot_3D_surface_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```
If not normalised (this argument is valid for every 3D functions):
![Surface_3D_normaliser](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/bb81fea8-7f79-447c-95d3-a86e67a2bf86)

```
eem = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering, order='both')
plot_3D_surface_inter(eem, Normalisation = False)
```
![Surface_3D_non_norm](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/f43e98ef-3fbe-450e-9e13-4468f3cf365b)

### 3D interactive contour plot
```
plot_3D_contour_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```
![Contour_inter_normaliser](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/8f2d6b3e-65e4-41af-9a55-0e83b4027e6a)

### 3D contour plot
```
plot_3D_contour(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```
![Contour_normaliser](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/b91dddd1-342a-4737-8dff-70fc92fc4425)

 #### With levels = 10 (default 25)
 ![graph](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/184e07d6-69d4-42f8-9954-74d8edea04d5)

#### With levels = 100
![graph](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/353d7146-4b1c-4b12-994b-5aadc130c6d8)

Commit message:

Update How_to_use_the_package.md add import info

documentation/How_to_use_the_package.md, after:

# How do you use the package?

## Example
```
import EEM
```
```
eem = read_excel() # another read function
eem_norm = fluo_raman_norm(eem)
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order='both')

plot_3D_surface_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
plot_3D_contour_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
plot_3D_contour(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```

## Pocedure
### 1) Upload the EEM matrice (file's data)
#### Example with an excel file
```
from EEM import read_excel
```
```
eem = read_excel()
```
![1) Popup to upload a file](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/7c6659a7-ebd5-45e2-9a22-ae398a53ba9f)

 ### 2) EEM matrice's normalisation
 ```
from EEM import fluo_raman_norm
```
 #### If the blank is included in the file (eem):

 ```
 eem_norm = fluo_raman_norm(eem)
```
#### If the blank is in another file:

 ```
 blank = read_excel()
 eem_norm = fluo_raman_norm(eem, blank = blank)
 ```
 The normalised EEM matrix is saved in an excel file called "normalised_Ramnan.xlsx" in the following form. The corresponding DataFrame is returned as shown below:
 
 | EmWl [nm] | 250        | 255        | 260        | 265        | 270        | 275        | 280        | 285        | 290        | 295        | 300        |
| --------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| 350       | 0.0008789  | 0.0023753  | 0.0028547  | 0.004495   | 0.0065382  | 0.0060588  | 0.0084375  | 0.0080449  | 0.0088119  | 0.0091292  | 0.0088656  |
| 350.5     | 0.0010234  | 0.0022913  | 0.002919   | 0.0044307  | 0.0058528  | 0.0064289  | 0.0076323  | 0.009171   | 0.0087779  | 0.0084182  | 0.0080242  |
| 351       | 0.0011219  | 0.0022533  | 0.0030072  | 0.0044122  | 0.0055507  | 0.0064891  | 0.0079348  | 0.0089342  | 0.0090996  | 0.0080688  | 0.007986   |
| 351.5     | 0.0011135  | 0.0022734  | 0.0030723  | 0.0044049  | 0.0056659  | 0.0065027  | 0.0079862  | 0.0089206  | 0.0089053  | 0.0079954  | 0.0079835  |
| 352       | 0.0011124  | 0.0022865  | 0.0031589  | 0.0043866  | 0.0056515  | 0.0065596  | 0.0079579  | 0.0087859  | 0.00886    | 0.007912   | 0.0078569  |

### 3) Optional: Remove Rayleigh scattering. (Recommanded before plotting)
 ```
from EEM import remove_rayleigh_scattering
```
#### First order
```
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order=1)
```
#### Second order
```
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order=2)
```
#### Both order 
```
eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm, order='both')
```

### Expected graph after removing the Rayleigh scattering:
![Contour_avec_rayleight](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/dc6b63a2-0a5b-4a90-995b-48cda94bc0d0)

### Expected graph without removing the first-order Rayleigh scattering:
![Contour_sans_rayleight_1](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/1d498a4b-be16-43b3-9f55-55557b6fa396)

### Expected graph after removing the second-order Rayleigh scattering:
![newplot (1)](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/66179bdb-a3d9-4f35-8f8c-ea9bbaf27ef8)

### Expected graph after removing the Rayleigh scattering (removed strip's width = 50 (default = 10)):
![Width_50](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/879d659d-1a0c-4d46-9943-2ee854212e7c)

### Expected graph after removing the Rayleigh scattering (removed strip's width = 5 (default = 10)):
![newplot (2)](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/08e896af-6f23-4d1a-84f0-63ee67b6ffa7)

### 4) Plot several graphs

### 2D graphs
 ```
from EEM import plot_fluorescence_graph
from EEM import plot_superimposed_graphs
```
Expected graph with one curve
```
plot_fluorescence_graph(eem)
```
![Capture d'écran 2024-05-23 165402](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160879372/f11c8d96-2487-41c7-bb9e-c405dd49e496)

Expected graph with superimposed curves (values in the same file)
```
plot_superimposed_graphs(eem, eem1 = False, eem2 = False, eem3 = False, eem4 = False, eem5 = False, eem6 = False)
```
Expected graph with superimposed curve (values in two different files)
```
eem = read_excel()
eem1 = fluo_raman_norm(eem)
plot_superimposed_graphs(eem, eem1 = eem1, eem2 = False, eem3 = False, eem4 = False, eem5 = False, eem6 = False)
```
![Capture d'écran 2024-05-23 164628](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160879372/9f74d508-8a74-4085-8c4e-1b309c18bb76)


#### 3D Surface plot
 ```
from EEM import plot_3D_surface_inter
```
If normalised:
```
plot_3D_surface_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```
If not normalised (this argument is valid for every 3D functions):
![Surface_3D_normaliser](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/bb81fea8-7f79-447c-95d3-a86e67a2bf86)

```
eem = remove_rayleigh_scattering(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering, order='both')
plot_3D_surface_inter(eem, Normalisation = False)
```
![Surface_3D_non_norm](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/f43e98ef-3fbe-450e-9e13-4468f3cf365b)

### 3D interactive contour plot
 ```
from EEM import plot_3D_contour_inter
```
```
plot_3D_contour_inter(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```
![Contour_inter_normaliser](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/8f2d6b3e-65e4-41af-9a55-0e83b4027e6a)

### 3D contour plot
 ```
from EEM import plot_3D_contour
```
```
plot_3D_contour(eem_norm_Removed_Rscattering)
```
![Contour_normaliser](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/b91dddd1-342a-4737-8dff-70fc92fc4425)

 #### With levels = 10 (default 25)
 ![graph](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/184e07d6-69d4-42f8-9954-74d8edea04d5)

#### With levels = 100
![graph](https://github.com/jojorichard/Fluorescence_Raman_normalisation/assets/160777950/353d7146-4b1c-4b12-994b-5aadc130c6d8)
